---
layout: post
title:  Nissan Skyline Buyer's Guide
date:   2016-08-01
author: Matthew Fisher
tags: skyline gt-r maintenance
comments: true
---

Here are some things to look for when checking out a used Skyline.

Items to bring along: flashlight, a ground cloth to lie on while peering at the underside of the car, something to clean your hands with and, if available, a car knowledgeable friend.

Inspecting the dirty side: Start with the front end and lie down on the ground on your back (use a
floor mat or the ground cloth to keep clean), stick your head under the front bumper and look up at
the structure behind the bumper. Use the flashlight to help you see under here. You are looking for
bent metal, evidence of paint overspray in the wheel wells and coil springs, missing pieces, etc.
All are evidence of serious accidents. While under there, have a look around for evidence of oil
leaks, shock absorber leaks and bent suspension. Ask if the car has been wrecked. Many people will
lie about this until you point out evidence of the damage.

Repeat the above for the rear end of the car. Check the shocks, CV joint boots, differential,
exhaust system and the metal forward of the rear bumper. Look forward at the driveshaft and
transmission, looking for leaks and bent pieces. Check the rear suspension for bent pieces. Check
the floor pan and wheel wells for large dents and rust.

Ask if the car has a salvage title. Stay away from any that do. Cars with salvage titles are hard to
insure and finance and are worth about 50% of a non-salvage title car. Many are bought at auction
and repaired by people who do a less than professional job. If you have any doubts about the car or
its title, go elsewhere.

Using the flashlight, peer through the wheels into the brake calipers. Try to determine how much pad
is left. It is sometimes difficult to see just how thick the pads are. It helps to move the car a
little to see around the spokes. Are the rotors scored? Resurfacing is cheap, but replacements can
be expensive.

Inside the trunk: Open the fabric panel on the bottom of the trunk area. Look behind this panel for
evidence of bodywork, bent panels, etc. Check down in the jack well on the left for water/rust. The
outer skin just above this area is unprotected from junk in the trunk and you can get dents from the
inside.

Interior: Check for signs of unusual wear. Skyline interiors are pretty rugged. The bucket seats
will fade if left in the sun. Look for wear on the driver's seat bolsters where your backside rubs
as you get in the car. Check the clutch and brake pedal pads. Do they look like the right amount of
wear for the mileage on the speedo? Check the door sill near the certification sticker for another
sticker that tells of a replaced speedometer and check the owners manual and warranty manual for
notations of a changed speedo. Many Skylines have their speedometers replaced because the OEM ones
only went to 180km/h. Ask the seller when the speedo was changed.

Inspecting the body panels. Are they smooth and do the seams match well? Sight down the sides of the
car in bright light. Do you see any ripples, roughness or other signs of body repair? If possible,
check the paint under fluorescent light. It will show sanding marks and other signs of body and
paint work. Check the door sill areas and wheel wells for signs of rust. Look for little bubbles in
the paint.

How good is the paint? Do some of the painted panels look fresher than the others? If they do, the
car will be two shades of the color after a few years of fading. If you find some discrepancies,
ask again about accidents. Inspect the door sills for overspray; check the black rubber parts next
to the paint for overspray. All are signs of a repaint which likely means an accident.

Under the Hood: Check for general cleanliness, oil leaks, and missing parts and inspect the area
around the radiator and headlights for signs of accident damage. Also look for leaking coolant. Ask
if the timing belt has been changed. It is due at 100,000km intervals. Ask if the coil packs and
coil pack harness has been changed; many go bad after 15+ years. Check underneath the battery and
near the strut towers for signs of rust.

Consider doing a compression check if the car has very high mileage and/or is running unevenly. You
can do it yourself if you have the tools and a compression gauge or you can pay a shop to do it for
you. In fact, you can also pay a shop to go over the whole car and give you a report. The cost for
this varies greatly; make sure you have an understanding with the shop about what will be done and
what it will cost.

Pull the oil dipstick. Check the oil for visible contaminants. It should be clean but it will darken
as the kilometres add up since the last change. If you see metallic particles sparkling in the oil,
stop now and leave. Ask when the oil was last changed. Ask to see maintenance records, especially of
oil changes. 5,000km intervals are great; up to 12,000km intervals are OK. Longer intervals or no
records, not so good. If they claim frequent oil changes but have no records, you will have to
decide whether to believe them or not.

Check the fan belts for cracks and obvious wear. Inspect the brake and clutch fluid reservoirs for
proper level and color of fluid. If it is very dark and dirty looking, plan on some $$s for repairs
in the future and get the fluids changed as soon as you buy the car. Check the power steering fluid
reservoir for level and leaks. Check the air conditioner compressor for oil leaks.

Have someone start the car while you watch the exhaust pipe. Look for smoke. In general, a white
cloud indicates water in the cylinders from a leaking head gasket or cracked block. If it pumps out
great clouds of smoke, thank the owner politely and leave.

Go back to the front and listen to the engine. Listen for knocks and any unusual sounds. If you are
not familiar with the noises engines make, bring along your favorite gearhead friend to help. Turn
on the A/C and check to see that both electric fans behind the radiator come on. Listen to the
sounds that start when the A/C compressor comes on. Loud knocking probably means replacement of the
compressor. Squealing sounds generally mean the belt is too loose. Check to see if the A/C blows
cold air. On a hot day, you should feel cold air at the vents within 30 seconds. If it takes much
longer, there may be a refrigerant leak to fix.

Once the engine is warmed up, grab the throttle valve and rev the engine slowly up, listening for
knocking sounds that come on at a certain rpm levels and fade away. Early signs of rod and main
bearing wear will show up here. Does the engine idle smoothly without shaking from side to side?

The test drive: With the car stopped, set the handbrake. Does it feel solid? It should go up about
3 inches. If you feel it hit a solid stop at the top, it is either maladjusted or the rear pads are
worn out. Gently try to move the car with the brake applied. Does it seem to hold?

Is the clutch smooth on engagement? Any slippage? Go up and down the gears several times. Any sound
or feel of bad synchronizers? Is the acceleration about right? Try the brakes. Do they have a solid
feel? Does the car stop straight? Do you feel pulsations in the brake pedal? On a deserted road or
large parking lot, make some quick left and right turns. Does the car feel solid or does it wallow
back and forth?

At about 25km/h in 1st gear, get on and off the gas quickly several times. Do you feel or hear any
slack in the driveline? Drive about 60km/h in 5th. Disengage the clutch, rev the engine about 2,000
above what it was doing and pop the clutch. If the engine immediately drops back to the original rpm
area, the clutch is probably good. If it comes back slowly and the car sounds like it has a slipping
automatic transmission, you have the first signs of clutch slippage. Be gentle--it's not your car
yet and it is easy to cook the flywheel doing this!

Drive at whatever speeds you can safely do under the conditions. Does the car wander or follow the
longitudinal grooves in the road? Does it feel controlled over bumps, or does it wallow like an old
Buick?

While you are driving in stop and go traffic, does the engine stutter, misfire, bog down after a
shift? All are signs that the coil packs need replacing, or worse.

After you have found and bought your Skyline, unless you got receipts from the previous owner(s) for
recent maintenance, assume the car is worst-case scenario and follow the [maintenance schedule]() to
bring it back up to date, especially the timing belt. Nobody likes buying a new car and having to
find a new R33 RB26 block.

Once that's all done, clean and detail it, give it a coat of wax and enjoy Skyline ownership.
