---
layout: post
title:  Oil Changes for Dummies
date:   2016-08-01
author: Matthew Fisher
tags: skyline gt-r maintenance
comments: true
---


So you want to learn how to fix your Skyline, but you've never done any work on it before? An oil
change is the best way to start. You don't need many tools, it's quick, and there's a minimum of
bloodshed. Oil changes are fundamental to good maintenance, and offer a great opportunity for
bonding with your car.

You need:

 - a combination wrench set
 - 6 litres/quarts of oil. Motul Chrono 300V 10W-40 will cover almost all temperature ranges.
 - a Nissan oil filter. You can get a Nismo oil filter from RHDJapan. They're better quality and cheaper than the OEM from your local dealer.
 - drain pan. Make sure it holds 6 litres!
 - funnel. Cheap suggestion? Cut the top off a 2 litre pop bottle and use that.
 - something to hold up the car. Jackstands, ramps, ...

Optional:

 - kitty litter. For cleaning up spills
 - cardboard For catching spills. A large flattened box works well
 - a good flashlight. Helpful when you're looking for something
 - new washer for the drain plug. Not necessarily needed every time, you can reuse it.
 - rubber dishwashing gloves. Protects you from hot oil and gives you extra grip

1. Get the oil warm. It doesn't have to be at full operating temperature. That's actually a little
painful. If you can't touch the engine, you won't want to touch the oil. It's likely going to run
down your hand, wrist, arm and end up in your armpit. The hotter the oil, the more likely it is this
will happen! Warm oil will drain better than cold, however.

2. Get the front of the car high enough that you can slide your drain pan underneath. Ramps work
well - you'll feel better if you have someone to spot for you. If you know how to slip a clutch just
inch your way up, hanging out the drivers door and looking at the front wheel. I use a jack and jack
stands. Make sure there's no way that car will roll or slip off whatever is holding the front up. I
also like to put a big sheet of cardboard under the car to catch the drips and make it more
comfortable to wiggle around under the car.

3. Find your oil pan. It should be warm to the touch if you followed step 1. There's a big bolt
sticking out of the edge on the passenger's side. There's your drain plug.

4. After you break the drain plug loose with your combination wrench, undo the drain bolt. Begin
unscrewing it with your hand. It should turn without resistance unless someone before you stripped
it. Use your index finger to keep the plug pushed up against the drain pan while you unscrew it with
your thumb and middle finger. Once it is fully unscrewed, quickly move your hand AND THE PLUG out of
the way and let the oil stream into the pan. When this comes out, the oil will follow. It won't just
oooze straight down, either. It will arc out to the side. And it's hot. Try to aim the drain pan so
that it catches the arc. The key is to not drop the plug into the pan - unless you like to stick
your hand in 6 litres of warm oil and fish for it. Some drain pans have a little grille in them so
that this is not a problem.

5. Open the hood and undo the filler cap. Oil will continue to drain out of the drain pan for a
couple of minutes. The longer the better.

6. Remove the filter. This can be a real pain in the ass, depending on who put it on last. It's the
most likely step to give you problems. The filter is hidden down at the side of the engine, on the
passenger's side. Look under the intake plenum (the big cast aluminum "pipe" beside the top of the
engine), and you should spot the filter below it. It will be the same shape as the filter you bought
to replace it with, but the colour will depend on who did the last oil change. The dishwashing
gloves will give you a bit of extra grip on the old filter. When you do get it off, it's going to
drain all over the place. Turn it so the hole is at the top as soon as you can, then throw it in the
drain pan to empty. They hold an amazing amount of oil. Wipe the mess off the side of the engine,
including the pipe the filter attaches to. Some people just knock a hole the in the filter, drain it
into a bowl, then unscrew in order to contain the mess.

7. Pre-oil the new filter. Put a bit of fresh clean oil on the rubber ring around the edge of the
filter, and screw it in to the side of the engine. Hand tight is fine. Those gloves will come in
handy again.

8. Put an optional new washer on the drain plug, and screw it back in. You don't want it coming
loose, but you're also not trying to set a world record. Get it snug, but DON'T strip it.

9. Pour about 5 litres of oil into the fill hole at the top. Don't do this until you've replaced the
drain plug! Check the dipstick. Now keep pouring and checking until you've got the right amount in
place. You've probably figured out where the funnel comes in to play here. Put the filler cap back
on when you're done. Seems obvious, but...

10. Clean up. Put kitty litter on any spills, and pour your old oil into a container that's labeled.
Pour it in old bleach bottles or something similar, take it somewhere that has an oil recycling
program. Most Canadian Tires have one, but call ahead to save you a trip.

11. Go for a drive. Check the oil later to make sure the level is right.

There! You just bonded with your Skyline, and it's happy for another 5,000 kilometers or more.
