garage/maintenance/schedule.md, before:

---
layout: post
title:  RB26 Maintenance Schedule
date:   2016-08-01
author: Matthew Fisher
tags: skyline gt-r maintenance
comments: true
---

First, a quick review on maintenance items and frequency:

 - Air cleaner element every 60,000kms
 - Timing belt every 100,000kms
 - Engine oil every 5,000kms
 - Oil filter every 10,000kms
 - Fuel filter every 100,000kms
 - Fuel hose every 4 years
 - Spark plugs every 100,000kms
 - Brake hoses every 4 years
 - Brake fluid every 2 years
 - Master cylinder cup and dust seal every 2 years
 - Wheel cylinder cup and dust seal every 4 years
 - Suspension ball joint grease every 120,000kms or every 4 years
 - Manual transmission fluid every 100,000kms or every 2 years
 - Differential fluid every 100,000kms or every 2 years


# 50,000km Maintenance

Let's look at the 50,000km maintenance. This includes a tune up, air filter replacement,
brake/clutch fluid flush and coolant flush. It's also a good idea to check the brakes, tire pressure
and tire wear at this point.


# 100,000km Maintenance

Assuming all maintenance has been done to the car at this point, this is what you should expect:

A full tune-up and fluid change, including brake fluid, transmission fluid, differential fluid,
transfer case/ATTESSA fluid, gearbox fluid, power steering fluid and coolant swap.

Suspension and brakes should be checked. This is a good time to think of replacing those old shocks.

Four wheel alignment.

Fuel filter replacement.

Spark plug replacement.

All the belts. This is especially important because the RB is an interference-type engine so if your
timing belt snaps your engine is hosed and you'll need a new one. This is a great opportunity to
change the idler pulley, tensioner pulley and the water pump at the same time since you're already
going through all the hassle to remove the timing belt. There are three accessory drive belts that
need to come off for the timing belt change so this is also a good time to change those.

Commit message:

elaborate more on "old shocks"

garage/maintenance/schedule.md, after:

---
layout: post
title:  RB26 Maintenance Schedule
date:   2016-08-01
author: Matthew Fisher
tags: skyline gt-r maintenance
comments: true
---

First, a quick review on maintenance items and frequency:

 - Air cleaner element every 60,000kms
 - Timing belt every 100,000kms
 - Engine oil every 5,000kms
 - Oil filter every 10,000kms
 - Fuel filter every 100,000kms
 - Fuel hose every 4 years
 - Spark plugs every 100,000kms
 - Brake hoses every 4 years
 - Brake fluid every 2 years
 - Master cylinder cup and dust seal every 2 years
 - Wheel cylinder cup and dust seal every 4 years
 - Suspension ball joint grease every 120,000kms or every 4 years
 - Manual transmission fluid every 100,000kms or every 2 years
 - Differential fluid every 100,000kms or every 2 years


# 50,000km Maintenance

Let's look at the 50,000km maintenance. This includes a tune up, air filter replacement,
brake/clutch fluid flush and coolant flush. It's also a good idea to check the brakes, tire pressure
and tire wear at this point.


# 100,000km Maintenance

Assuming all maintenance has been done to the car at this point, this is what you should expect:

A full tune-up and fluid change, including brake fluid, transmission fluid, differential fluid,
transfer case/ATTESSA fluid, gearbox fluid, power steering fluid and coolant swap.

Suspension and brakes should be checked. This is a good time to think of replacing the old
aftermarket suspension from Japan with a good set of coilovers.

Four wheel alignment.

Fuel filter replacement.

Spark plug replacement.

All the belts. This is especially important because the RB is an interference-type engine so if your
timing belt snaps your engine is hosed and you'll need a new one. This is a great opportunity to
change the idler pulley, tensioner pulley and the water pump at the same time since you're already
going through all the hassle to remove the timing belt. There are three accessory drive belts that
need to come off for the timing belt change so this is also a good time to change those.
